test the modern testing podcast join your hosts Alan and Brent I am mindless
agile robot I must iterate as we talk about software engineering software
quality leadership and whatever else comes to mind now on with the show
hello everyone howdy we're back again where Brent and I after on our 99th try
we'll try and actually record a podcast practice makes perfect listen I don't
know why it's every time it's hard I come to Brent's house well it's Microsoft
it's his office but it's actually a conference room near his office and I
plug all the stuff in and every time it's different and somehow on our digital
mixer buttons get pushed and knobs get turned while it's just sitting in a
backpack I just don't understand how these things happen we are taking
applications I suppose for a full-time sound engineer there's no pay but that
will be equitable with the pay that Brett and I put in so that's good yeah
it will be fair you'll get paid exactly as much as we do yes that's true but
yeah yeah or if you just want to volunteer some recording space where we
can just set up all our stuff and leave it set up all the time and just we'll
just go there and record be like the A B testing studios oh that's a good idea
and again we can't pay rent but we're looking for a free place to do that oh
maybe if you live close by and have a spare bedroom when you set yourself up
in there we'll just show up one morning every other week or so and I wonder
actually probably unannounced could we register as a nonprofit and then you know
well we're not gonna pay rent but could that person then use rent as maybe
maybe I might be willing to consider doing the effort to look at what it
takes to consider being a nonprofit all right so how I don't know I got there
because I like what I was what today you brought in a just a crap load of extra
yeah over on over to my right as you can see from our video feed stop looking
on the internet for our video feed you don't want to see us we don't have one I
have a whole bunch of extra piles of stuff which I have brought in after being
tested in anticipation of the upcoming because this is episode 99 the upcoming
episode 100 100 that is three digits so we're gonna we're gonna have or in
binary we have invited all three listeners to participate so but if you'd
like if you're one of the three and you would like to be part of that
recording it will be April 12th that 8 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time probably a
few minutes early for a soundcheck you can listen live while we record you can
see what our podcast sounds like before my wonderful editing happens and have a
chance to offer some comments ask quick questions and be part of that that
exciting event you know what else happens you know what happens between now
today's date which is March 20 something and April 12th two weeks from
now I do what happens but what do you think happens in fact what happens one
week from now on April 5th April 5th we should have I mean appropriate in a
perfect world we would have recorded on April 5th but just stuff came up in our
recording schedule got shifted but April 5th is what Brent five years of being
victimized by you on the podcast I was thinking the same damn thing and we
probably recorded it a few days before that I don't remember how long I took to
edit back then and please again if you're getting people into the podcast
don't have them start with episode one just just pick a spot farther into the
series and start from there if they want to go chronologically we were we
are still learning what to do what to talk about and maybe we'll get it
down by the time we get that but I'm still thinking we should just go back and
read number just say episode what was it 62 is oh it's actually one and then
everything else was the prequel we can call it we can call it season two oh and
we'll just say don't listen to season one it wasn't good that I like that idea
maybe maybe we're on season three or four now that would but that's a really
good idea that would screw up everyone's RSS feeds and man they get mad
when I do that okay episode 99 has a sponsor one of the three is sponsoring
AB testing and what you just said hey you nonprofit sponsor you can sponsor
AB testing it's massively cheapest practically free and all that money goes
back into buying stamps and stickers and sometimes equipment we're still in a net
loss but but it helps out so if we did go nonprofit now you got me thinking
about it definitely everything we make gets reinvested back into back into the
show and I would say even if we then look look at us we don't do this for
the money we do it for the love of each other like let's say let's let's say a
world where and honestly for before we get into the sponsor Brent and I have a
rule about sponsorship it has to be something that we that we would use we
think is valuable we think is something that given the right situation like of
course Brent has to use Microsoft tools for everything but given the right
scenario this is something we do something we can do Microsoft now but the
the spirit of what you're saying is absolutely true not only would be
something that we would use but for me in particular and I think you agree with
this it's very important that it aligns with our our mission which is
accelerating the achievement of quality and we think it was something that would
would help our our audience the great thing is is where Brent and I just
booked together I can just totally edit him out later if I want we'll see what
happens yeah where was I going I was going oh well as an example I gave a
talk on an AMA for the ministry of test and ask me anything about modern
testing guys that a year ago oh something else I want I'll save that for
a hundred some I'm nice little partnership coming with ministry of
testing but there was they paid me for that but they also had an option to just
donate that money back to scholarships etc for their events and if they did
that they double it so that was a no-brainer to do that but I'm thinking
let's say we got a whole bunch of sponsors maybe we have a sponsor on every
episode we're rolling in the dough I would love to turn that into a be
testing scholarships for testing events for things like that I would love if if
there was ever and again we're not we don't go out and look for advertisers
they come to us because they like what we talked about and say I want to be on
your show and help you guys out definitely that money either goes back
into trying to make this show better and believe it or not we are trying as
bad as it gets sometimes and I would love to if the circumstances got there
I'd love to use any windfall we get from people actually wanting to support our
show to give back to the community as much as we can we would probably pick
the community but yeah like if we had if there was enough money we keep talking
about you know maybe one day having a test bash here in Seattle right but not
with the funds we have available well that's something that's still gonna
happen someday I want to talk about practice test today so thank you Joel
and co for sponsoring this episode of a be testing as you are aware there's
definitely no one size fits all in testing for anything this is why they
built practice test to do it to be a centralized solution that supports
testing of different types and sizes scripted exploratory automated whatever
they envision a place for all testing data will reside so that stakeholders
can generate the information required for their needs I want to pause here it's
obviously some copy but we we've talked about this before but and you know from
being in definitely firmly entrenched in a data job but but preparing the
information the information that a that a IC needs versus the line level manager
versus the director of engineering is different oh for sure so being able to
spin that that testing data that generated data in a variety of ways is is
a pretty critical yeah and the thing I think that is was pretty interesting
about their approach is they have a mechanism for generating that data
regardless of how it sort of sits right because one of the problems we used to
in one of the early episodes and you get ten architects in a room brainstorming a
new automation design you walk out with 12 designs of course right and of
course they will all have different schemas they will all have different
process models they will all be different so this tool does help to coalesce
that into the information that's valuable another issue they're trying
to solve is that as we create and run more tests and more types of tests we
end up with a whole bunch of data in the system having a lot of data can
actually be harmful if you can't control it so they introduced a
revolutionary approach to data organization instead of burying the data
in folders and within folders within folders within folders they allow users
to work with hierarchical filter trees that are based on the same data it
enables teams to organize information in more flexible and even multiple ways
things we just talked about a little bit before helping you generate better
reports and I would say more contextually more contextual reports and
visibility into product and process at practice test they believe that the
testers job is not to test for the sake of testing I would say that modern
testing definitely feels that way as well but to create visibility and provide
information that will help the team release better products and do it
faster for that reason having a platform that supports testing is not enough and
they put a lot of effort into their dashboard and reporting modules which is
damn cool to make sure that that's that they didn't write that part I
added that to make sure any stakeholder can get the relevant information they
need in the format they need it and when they need it so practice test is
targeting testers yeah but if you are if you understand why we wrote up the
modern testing principles and you agree with them there's absolutely no reason
and and when Joel showed us that I brought this up there's no reason why
this isn't a tool to help you in your process of coaching developers how to
move the test or how to yeah yeah yeah right now in their own reporting right
exactly it's right that the one of the problems a lot of the times is is us and
test we've created this very rich language and this lingo and we've kind of
in some regards I think we've purposely obfuscated it to make it unattractive
for developers to sort of take over or to generate a job that only we could do
thus celebrating the bottleneck versus getting rid of the bottle exactly and so
this this absolutely helps to grease the wheels there reduce the friction on
that that cultural transfer we talk about over and over again throughout my
entire career one test complaint is how do we move it upstream shift left yes
shift left that's that's actually the new move it upstream isn't it well this
is a good left shifter it is it is although yeah maybe I want to take that
back because I think left shift is I think it would fad I shift I have mocked
that phrase for many many many moons triple dub dot practice test PR a CT
I T EST comm check them out thanks Joel and co for sponsoring this episode and
I hope that some of the three or maybe will we ever have four listeners
probably not but I hope some of the three check it out and see if they can
use it for their teams cool let's you ready to move on to the topic du jour oh
yeah and actually the other thing I'll say on that one is Joel's on the slack
channel if you're not one of the three dot slack calm you can go to modern
testing org and find a link to sign up and hang out with us yourself and you
know I'm sure Joe will completely agree to personally being your hands-on
support for practice yeah the cool thing about practice and one thing I
didn't bring up and I should so the never-ending ad here but it's worth it
is that it doesn't try and be a kitchen sink it doesn't try and be everything for
everyone it it's it's small and focused and which means it's easy to get wrapped
up and learn and it's a small company and you will get a lot of love yeah
Joel is on the road helping people out with practice test all the time and
and just a good tool with great results I said I see a lot of real
solid possibilities with that tool definitely or tool set right right I
think it's great where it is right now but it I think there's a lot of things
that would be very easy for them to add that would make it super powerful cool
all right we have let's get into right here about 15 minutes into the podcast
let's talk about postmodern Alan yeah are we ever gonna close the cliffhanger
yeah bear almost I'm this is like here soap opera where I stretch it out till
episode 100 when it finally everything finally lasts but I know it it will it
will because there is pressure on me to decide what to do and in order so
bread doesn't know all the story so I'm gonna I'm gonna back up gloss over what
he and I talked about originally a month and a half ago but first off is it at a
point right now I'm out of the bottleneck it's just waiting on a decision
from Alan it's mostly waiting on a decision for me but that decision
requires me talking to two more people on Monday to get a little better feel
we talk about what that is in a moment so can you can you defer that another
two weeks no because we could just use 100 and just have the the three decide
your fate no yeah I think I know what I'm going to do it's gonna be I think
largely obvious as I go through my thought process let's get started to
recap those who haven't heard the episodes of Alan I joined unity two
years ago it's been a blast we talked about very early on I figured out my
team was really a community more than people that worked for me the modern
testing principles evolved out of what we have been talking about on the show and
I started putting those things into practice to see what would work again
people some people are afraid of principle seven which the second half
says paraphrased you may not have the need for a tester on your team anymore
as a dedicated testing specialist I should say so what's happened is over
the two years I've slowly moved my entire team
well most of my team to not work directly for me and as of our latest
reorg into a brand new division at unity I have dissolved the remainder of my
testing organization and retired my cost center there is no longer a cost
center associated with my team they all work elsewhere so what does that mean
what happens when you work yourself out of a role well the good news is is I
have not worked myself out of a job the fun part has been over the last few
months figuring out what is the new role for me within my job at unity and I
talked a little bit talked to Brent a little bit I was exploring the idea with
our leader of our new division over running a large part of the
organization definitely there's some challenges in that a lot of meetings I
imagine I've I felt pretty good about how I've managed people at unity and but
really more about how I've built a community and help them become leaders I
thought that would be a good rule for me we had some more conversations and
there is a larger need I will go into complete details to directly manage one
of the feature teams which will grow basically a dev manager role in a team
that would start off moderately sized and grow very very quickly to be quite
large building a lot of internal and external services services for game
developers and enabling other teams at unity to build services even if they
didn't have that services background I thought that sounds fun that's in my it's
up my alley I like this it's it's a lot of things I like to do but I also took
some time to reflect and what are the things that I like and what are the
things that I don't like and which is a good exercise that anyone going back to
Brent talking about the potential of eighth principle it's like how do you
take care of yourself and while I don't believe it's a principle I think there
are some things for anybody whether you're doing modern testing or not as
you're growing in your career think about especially when you get old like
me you really want to do the things that are most that you enjoy the most
I feel like the biggest challenge for you I'm gonna interrupt there yeah
please please that's a good place to stop there there's I don't think you
being old is what matters I think this is true I only got a few years left Brent
no I know but you know the corollary is is hey if you're fresh in in the
industry you know you can afford to spend the next 20 years of your life
you know hating your job right and so what I what I tell people is when you
think about a job change think about three things number one what do you do
well okay that's one set think of a three circle Venn diagram what do you do
well what do you like to do and what can you be paid to do like you want to
find you want to find the sweet spot for all three and there's an old
Confucius saying right it's find the job that you love and you will never work a
day in your life right and I've always had jobs I've loved and I'm gonna see if
I can find I can't find it I'll talk about a little bit let me go through I
and there's yes that's relevant I think it's a lot one thing I've noticed is or
I've encountered is that that Venn diagram is much easier to execute on well
and not leave your company if you're at a big company like Microsoft Unity still
2,000 people and actually that'll come into play here in a minute so I
definitely can find all three and and to be clear this is you kind of see
where this is going this is the job offer to me it's good it's very good a
lot of fun a lot of challenge but on reflection I started to wonder if it was
the best role for me and let me tell you about the steps that I go through when I
think about changing jobs the high-level statement is never go from a job always
go to a job and more importantly never define best role based off of a fear so
no right right so one exercise I do when saying when evaluating a role is to
think about what are the three things that I dislike the most about role a or
role B and when I thought about this this Dev Manager role again to be
ultimately clear that it would be a cool job a lot of people are really excited
for me to take this role but in the end I want to do what's best what I feel
right now no no no I'm trying I'm just trying to tell a story so I reflected I
thought you know I've been a Dev Manager before you can count a little
bit of you know I ran infrastructure and tools on on Microsoft Teams I forgot the
name of the damn thing but then I reflected back I thought oh my god I
forgot way way back in 2001 maybe I was the dev lead for the the shell on
Windows CE I was gonna say and I I totally forgot and that was it was that
experience that made me double down on test because what I realized at that time
is there are a lot of people that like making things they're excited by feature
work and for me fixing bugs and fixing process and making things better and if
you'd never phrase for it but accelerating the achievable quality was a
much more satisfying role for me than making things and when this role has
been sold to me it's a lot about making things I thought wait a minute I've made
things before and it was fun but it wasn't exciting for me oh you know for
me so when when I went to Bing as as a Dev Manager the thing that I found
actually really surprising and it's aligned with what you said my team
loved building features and that's great because we were building a
product and we needed to do that but I spent my time fixing bugs and it just
made me happy as a clam to do so and I think that's okay the way I view it now
so that's still kind of what I do although a lot of times I do a lot of a
lot of the bugs I'm fixing you wouldn't argue that they're bugs because a lot of
times I'm like oh my god I can't believe this was designed this way and
and this bug fix is actually a full architecture re-implementation but I now
very much focus so I wouldn't use your old winstays because the world is very
different yeah no no it is it is and and to be clear that was a reflection
exercise and the way I would run the dev team would be much more like I ran the
teams developers so I it would definitely be and I would have and I would or will
I haven't made a decision yet have some of my old QA team members working for me
in and actually one of those one of those people is pretty much doing a
DevOps role entirely right now you just implemented a feature flag service
anyway yeah I haven't heard the downside yet so no no so the other the
other aspect to that that the way I look at things now is I own the business no
and again it is it to be clear let me finish up my thoughts on this let me move
on to what I'm fit my other my other choice if I can get through this so the
other thing is is I this team will grow and I like hiring I think it'd be
fun but and of course it's a it's a leadership role so I'm working I'm on
the leadership team for the division so we're talking about option two now
we're talking about option one still okay so I would still work across the
organization on a bunch of different things and I like that but I kind of
like again reflection time let's go back to Xbox one where I worked across an
entire organization helping them do better at what they needed to do again
before we had a name for accelerating the achievement of quality it started off
with just the test team then it was all the console team and then I was
communicating and coordinating across Xbox live and then game development
teams I like having my hands in a lot of different places you know this from
building communities at Microsoft there is something I like that I like the
challenge of influencing a bunch of people that don't necessarily work for
me I've been able to do that quite a bit at Unity but I think I would have
a less chance of that in this role that's okay I think it's definitely
still some cross-divisional leadership opportunities and then as I mentioned
before so I said wanted something I've done before to it it's a little narrower
in perhaps some narrowing in scope and then the thing also I mentioned for us I
like fixing processes and problems more than making things not like I don't
like making things and I wouldn't make it in a way that would be awesome so but
let's be clear I haven't shut the door on this currently offered job yet no the
issue is it's or at least what's in my head it's how you're distinguishing
things right processes and problems is gonna occur in either role yeah yeah so
let me actually before you speculate let me actually talk about the other option
I'm thinking about all right and I'll decide well before the next episode and
and talk about it on the slack team if you want to know the details as part of
this is great it's actually it's wonderful to have an opportunity to
explore both of these things and but and I have two roles that I am debating
and you probably tell I'm leaning a little bit towards the second one but I
haven't made a decision yet at all I'm talking about moving to work full time
in our ads organization our modernization organizations more than
just adds modernization monetization money money making which is ads in app
purchasing including those that's the other option yes and so let me talk about
that role a little bit of course longtime listeners will know that the QA folks
in that organization used to be part of my org and it's one of the first QA orgs
I moved back to work for the dev teams and many of those a couple of people are
still the largely a testing specialist role within that organization but most
of them are just full-time developers in that organization that happen to have
some extra quality knowledge it's a team of about a hundred and sixty engineers
okay and of course there's a bunch of product managers defining what we're
doing making deals with customers developers advertisers etc so the
overall goal in that org is to increase quality accuracy and velocity of
offerings offered by the group so the role there is to work across all of the
ads engineering teams helping them again accelerate their achievement
quality but working across all the different organizations it's about what
all of their all of their dev teams are between three and seven people so what
shippable quality in that context like I think I think I and probably the
listeners probably have a a good fuzzy idea shippable quality from option one
but shippable quality option two more money less friction like how do you
define success so far I've even got into the details yet but I think it would be
better predictability and better quality better predictability by scheduling and
a good predictability in the project management the teams largely do
project management the same but there are definitely some tweaks there and
again this is a team I've worked with tangentially non-stop for the last two
years and also quality so the way you just described I just want to be clear
it sounds like synchronized cat hurting a lot of cat hurting they need some cat
hurting and the way the the VP put it he says says we have an org that thrives
pretty well in chaos but we want someone who could bring just the right
amount of order to our chaos and I like doing that so and also definitely
improving uptime service quality predictability deployment rates helping
manage expectations appropriately between engineering and product management in
fact the last two people I need to talk to mainly for me to interview them is a
couple people from the product management team to understand what they
see as bottlenecks what they see as issues with engineering probably a lot of
what I would do is manage expectations on reality on one yes we can deliver this
thing that'll make a ten million dollars but if we do it by the date you want
will probably lose five million in the first week as a total made-up example a
little bit of project management coaching a lot of quality coaching a lot of
really it's a role again that I'll work myself out of eventually I assume but
one I think it's a lot of growing the quality culture within the team to more
advanced levels so do you have a team in this option probably not initially
okay I would probably work as an as an IC initially so what you described to me
almost sounds like an engineering evangelist type I don't know if I'd
call it that and actually who's a good thing is like I'll give a few more
highlights of the role I'm gonna figure out what we'd call it if I if I end
up taking this role cuz I don't know what to call it I kind of want to get
out of the quality director you know quality name so anyway so I'll just give
you the list of things the VP sent me he gives him some examples adding processes
and frameworks for tracking dependencies and communication between teams as teams
as teams grow from small to large as you know from reading Brooks or
Weinberg or anyone else the ability to communicate among them decreases so
helping with that helping facilitate communication making sure there's some
consistency and quality bars and especially like a definition of done
developing a culture of autonomy and quality and transparency you figure out
what do we are there things that we can measure things like that visibility on
how teams how people on teams are allocated make sure it's because we're
looking across all teams yeah I know the title okay let me finish here and
then track we have some ongoing programs like the team is it's 60%
feature work 20% innovation you know 20% time and then 20% tech debt and but
teams don't track it sometimes don't use it right it's like it's maybe coming up
some ways to keep those things on track so basically helping the engineering VP
of that group achieve his vision by doing all the magical things that I know
how to do okay I'm ready what are you gonna call it because this was this
role sounded super familiar and I finally realized where it came from and in the
safe framework oh god just lost our three listeners why I think safe is a
fantastic framework I did this role that you're describing is known as the
release train manager huh I don't know if I like that you got anything better
no actually because a release train manager is an essence a communication
role and and uh and uh so you can think of it like a train station the job is to
make sure it is to honor the required necessities from the business team right
you're essentially gonna be a an intermediary between the business team
and the engineering team is a little bit that's definitely part of the job
right but also a lot of hands-on in the engineering team helping them do a
better job so first off if if I were to go into that role I'm just telling you
the thing I would do is I would immediately go take I would go take a
refresher on safe and that's how I would begin deploying it and saying this
and and if you go do a review on that like the structures all there makes
everyone happy happy happy okay and offline next time we do launch I can go
into more detail if it's useful when we can set up once sooner if the pending
decision now that said if I were to go into that role and I've been in the role
of release train manager once in my career this was about four months
before I finally left that team and came to where I'm at now okay it is
essentially a super duper release manager which doesn't it's an important
role does not appeal to me when you started talking about the monetization
stuff that sudden sound actually pretty exciting from my current role right as a
data scientist focus on customer behavior and improving business KPIs but
that's not where you went with the discussion no and but I think that I get
what you're saying and I remember reading enough about safe to remember this role
but I think the difference is the amount of coaching maybe the release
train manager does that aren't recall that but just a lot of helping teams
figure out how to approach quality better and we'll use they're already
using my quality culture transition guide and helping and again I guess the
release train manager would include some coaching on how to project manage you
would essentially be Unity's agile coach or that division tell you so little or
that yet until you solidified into a pure RTM role at which case maybe I've
worked myself out of that role on something else it once so that's exactly
what I did is is actually I was the RTM I had a person shadowing me when I left
he just took over okay yeah cool anyway those are the things I'm thinking about
both very different different challenges different drawbacks again in this as I
mentioned initially the role would be an IC role and I've actually really grown to
like managing people Unity so I will miss doing that but I think that will be a
temporary thing I'm not sure what I need a team for but we'll figure that out as
we go but that's I'm gonna offer you another option what's another option not
coming back to Microsoft no okay good the only time I would suggest that
would be if I had an opening and that's for entirely selfish reasons no if you
were to take my suggestion around applying the safe framework and looking
through that honestly if based on what I know I don't see a reason why you
couldn't do all of the above well there are different divisions and something
else to discuss in a longer term someone's waiting for our room so why
don't we wrap it up there okay and we'll find out more in episode 100 again
April 12th 8 a.m. PDT contact me on Twitter or via slack if you want to take
part we'd love to have you there I'm still Alan after 99 episodes and I am
Brent later bye